README.md, before:

# Crilly's B&B

## Introduction

Crilly's B&B is a website for a small B&B business based in the small town of Maghera, Co. Derry. The website is aimed towards any holidaymakers who are looking for a quiet holiday in relaxing surroundings.

Users of this website will be able to gain a good insight into what it is like to stay at the B&B, the available facilites and what they can expect from the local area. They will have easy access to prices and contact page where they can send an enquiry to book their desired room. 

## User Experience (UX)

### Project Goals

* To create a minimalist, well-designed website for a small hospitality business that helps with the company's branding and increases their bookings.

### User Goals

* To learn more about the B&B, including the style and affordability.
* To easily make a booking.
* To find clear information about the B&B location and directions, the rooms, prices and facilities on offer.

### Site Owner's Goals

* To project a positive brand image.
* To get new customers.

### Target Audience

* Families looking for an affordable, low-key holiday.
* Couples looking for a remote romantic getaway.
* Solo travelers who would appreciate cosy and remote accommodation in the countryside.

### User Stories

* First Time Visitor Goals

  * As a First Time Visitor, I want to easily understand the main purpose of the site and learn more about the service on offer at the B&B.
  * As a First Time Visitor, I want to be able to easily navigate throughout the site to find content.
  * As a First Time Visitor, I want to easily find basic information about the B&B like it's location and how to reach it.
 
* Returning Visitor Goals

  * As a Returning Visitor, I want to easily access the section of the site where I can contact the organisation with queries.
  * As a Returning Visitor, I want to easily access the section of the site where I can review prices as I may now be considering booking and putting a budget together for this.
  * As a Returning Visitor, I also want to locate the business's social media links to see their followings on social media to determine how trusted and known they are, and potentially look for testimonials on these sites to understand how previous customers found the accommodation.
  
* Frequent User Goals

  * As a Frequent User, I want to be able to access the site easily from any device, even if I am on the go.
  * As a Frequent User, I want to follow the B&B on their social pages so I am aware of any updates/offers.

* Site Owner Goals

  * As a site owner, I want to create an attractive and well-designed site that elicits a positive emotional resonse in users so that they remain on and navigate througout the site to achieve their goals.
  * As a site owner, I want to have a clear and well-structured contact from so I can receive queries and questions from users which will potentially lead to bookings.
  *  As a site owner, I want to have clear social media links displayed on the site which may lead to an increased following on channels to help with my branding.

### Structure:

The site has 4 pages: 

Home page - The 'Home' page contains a Hero image of the exterior of the B&B (Often the first thing a potential customer wants to see), an eye-catching call to action booking button in the centre of the page which redirects to the Contact page, and an 'About us' section with a welcome message and brief background of the business.

Rooms -  The 'Rooms' page contains images of the two room types available and their prices, with additional 'book now' buttons which redirect to the Contact form/booking page.

See and do - The 'See and do' page contains suggestions for activities in the area which may be of interest to the B&B's guests, along with links to more information on each activity. 

Contact page - The 'Contact' page contains a contact form for customers to submit booking requests and questions to the company. This page also contains a map to the B&B and directions/transport options.

For consistency of user experience, the site logo, navigation links and footer remain consitent throughout the site.

### Wireframes:

Mock-ups were made using Balsamiq to help plan and visualise the site design. They were created for 3 main screen sizes: mobile, tablet and desktop.

> - [Wireframes](docs/home-wireframes.pdf): 'Home' page.
> - [Wireframes](docs/rooms-wireframes.pdf): 'Rooms' page.
> - [Wireframes](docs/see-and-do-wireframes.pdf): 'See and do' page.
> - [Wireframes](docs/contact-wireframes.pdf): 'Contact' page.

### Design:

* Colour Scheme:

The colour palette includes calm and complimenting colours which suit the countryside cottage feel that the site is aiming for. The palette was chosen using the [Coolors](https://coolors.co/) colour generator website.

![Image of Color Palette](assets/images/color-palette-small.png)

The colours mainly used were:

Rosewood: #4F000B

Claret: #720026

Brickred: #CE4257

White was also used in different parts of the site to achieve the best possible contrast for user experience.

* Typography:
'Kaisei HarunoUmi', taken from Google Fonts, is the main font used throughout the website with 'Sans Serif' as the fallback font. It is clear, neat and appropriate for the homely feel that the site is aiming for. 

* Imagery:

All images were sourced from [Pexels](https://www.pexels.com/) and [Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/).

The main image on the home page is a beautiful remote old fashioned country cottage, surrounded by nature. This aims to evoke feelings of calm. 

The images on the 'See and do' offer a preview of the recommended local activites, and also provide a balance between imagery and text.

The image on the 'Contact' page aims to evoke feelings of cosiness and calm and compliments the site's colour scheme.

------

## Features

### Existing Features:

* Navigation

  * Horizontally aligned navigation bar with 4 navigation links exists on all pages.

  * Navigation bar is always at the top of the page so users know what to expect and can navigate easily.

  * The site logo is clickable and allows the user to return to the homepage from anywhere on the site.

  * A border appears at the bottom of the menu links when they are hovered over.

  * On mobile, the navigation menu links are displayed underneath and to the right of the logo, instead of in-line.

Desktop:

![Image of desktop menu](assets/images/desktop-nav.png)

Mobile:

![Image of mobile menu](assets/images/mobile-nav.png)

* Landing Page with a hero image

  * Large hero image serves to present the B&B in an attractive light and grab the users attention.
  * Call to action booking button is centrally placed on the hero image. The button background and text colours change on hover inviting the visitor to navigate to the contact/booking section of the site.

Desktop:

![Image of desktop hero image](assets/images/desktop-hero.png)

Mobile: 

![Image of mobile hero image](assets/images/mobile-hero.png)

* 'About Us' section
  * This seciton provides a brief background of the B&B and a welcoming message for prospective guests.
  * Icons were added to the section heading to make the paragraph stand out and make it more appealing visually.

Desktop:

![Image of desktop 'about us'](assets/images/about-us-desktop.png)

Mobile:

![Image of mobile 'about us'](assets/images/about-us-mobile.png)

* Footer

  * Footer is conventionally placed at the bottom of the site and consistently displayed on all pages.

  * It includes centered social media links which open in new tabs. 

  * The aim is for a clean and minimlaist look for the footer.

Desktop: 

![Image of desktop footer](assets/images/desktop-footer.png)

Mobile:

![Image of mobile footer](assets/images/mobile-footer.png)

* Rooms 

  * The Rooms page displays two large images of available rooms at the B&B.
  * The overlay text on each image states the price per night and an additional booking button to take customers to the contact/booking page straight away.

Desktop:

![Image of Desktop Rooms](assets/images/rooms-desktop.png)

Mobile:

![Image of Mobile Rooms](assets/images/rooms-mobile.png)

* See and do 

  * The 'See and do' page contains suggestions for recreational activities within driving distance of the B&B.
  * There is a short introductory text on each activity with an accompanying image.
  * Each activity has a link to the relevant social media or website page through which guests can find specific locations and directions. Each of theese links opens in a new tab.
  * On smaller screens, the images adjust so that they become smaller to allow the full text to be seen, without stretching or distorting the images.

Desktop:

![Image of Desktop See and do](assets/images/seedo-desktop.png)

Mobile:

![Image of Mobile See and do](assets/images/seedo-mobile.png)

* Contact

  * The contact page contains a large image of a fireplace to evoke feelings of cosiness and warmth.
  * There is a contact form overlaying the main image where guests can submit queries or directly make a booking request. The button on this form changes colour when hovered over.
  * The name and email fields are required and a validation error message pops up if the user tries to submit the form with information missing from these fields.
  * The email addresss needs to be in a valid format - a validation error message pops up if the format is incorrect.

Desktop:

![Image of Desktop Contact](assets/images/contact-desktop.png)

Mobile:

![Image of Mobile Contact](assets/images/contact-mobile.png)

* Directions section

  * This section is located at the bottom of the Contact page adnd comprises of an embedded Google Map and Directions text.
  * On smaller screens, the map gets stacked on top of the text instead of side by side.

Desktop:

![Image of Desktop Directions](assets/images/directions-desktop.png)

Mobile:

![Image of Mobile Directions](assets/images/directions-mobile.png)

### Features To be Implemented in Future:

* Rooms page: Add more pictures of each room to give customers a better idea, possibly using a Javascript scroll function through the images.
* Contact page: Add a traditional booking form with arrival and departure dates to make the booking experience more straight forward for guests.
* Home page: Add more imagery in a gallery to give an insight into the catering services at the B&B. This gallery would also portray a diverse customer base to reflect the company's commitment to diversity and inclusion. 
-

## Technologies Used

###Languages:
* > - [HTML 5](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTML5)
* > - [CSS 3](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CSS)

###Frameworks, libraries and programs used:

* > - [Balsamiq](https://balsamiq.com/) - to create wireframes for the site as part of the project preparation.
* > - [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/) - to import the 'Kaisei HarunoUmi' and 'Sans Serif' fonts into the HTML file, which were then used throughout the site.
* > - [Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com/) - for icons which were added to some headings throughout the site for aesthetics.
* > - [Coolors](https://coolors.co/) - for an appropriate and attractive colour palette.
* > - [Tinypng](https://tinypng.com/)- to resize images.
* > - [Chrome DevTools](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/) - to inspect and debug the code through all stages of the development.
* > - [Lighthouse](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/lighthouse) - to check the site for performance, accessibility and best practices.
* > - [Am I Responsoive](http://ami.responsivedesign.is/) - to produce a preview of the site on different devices.
* > - [W3C HTML Validator](https://validator.w3.org/#validate_by_input) - to validate HTML code.
* > - [W3C CSS Validator](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/) - to validate CSS code.
---Color Contrast Accessibility Validator - to test the contrast and readability of colours used ---
* > - [Github](https://github.com/) - for hosting the project code and version control.
* > - [Gitpod](https://gitpod.io/account)- to write the code and push it to GitHub.
* > - [Github Pages](https://pages.github.com/) - to deploy the site.
---Online-Spellcheck - to spellcheck the content of the site and README---
* > - [Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/) - for images.
* > - [Pexels](https://www.pexels.com/) - for images.

## Deployment

* The site was developed in GitPod and deployed to GitHub pages. The steps to deploy are as follows:
  * Navigate to the Github repository. For this project, this is rocrill/Crilly-s-B-B. 
  * Navigate to the Settings tab, then to Pages.
  * From the Source secton drop-down menu, select the Master Branch ( or Branch: Master and Root folder). Save.
  * Once the master branch has been selected, you will see the message: 'Your site is published' and a link to the deployed site will be provided.

The live link can be found here - xxxxx

## Testing

The W3C Markup Validator and W3C CSS Validator Services were used to validate every page of the project to ensure there were no syntax errors in the project.

W3C Markup Validator - Results
W3C CSS Validator - Results

#Testing User Stories



#Further Testing

The Website was tested on Google Chrome, Internet Explorer, Microsoft Edge and Safari browsers.
The website was viewed on a variety of devices such as Desktop, Laptop, iPhone6 and Oppo Find X2 Lite.



## Credits

### Code

The Code Institute LMS content as well as some posts on Stackoverflow were used to create this site. All code taken from these resources has been adapted to suit the needs of this site, except for the specific cases referenced below.

Reference materials from xxx were used to implement xxx.

xxx was taken from this xxx post.

Icons taken from Font Awesome.


## Acknowledgements


------

Commit message:

Add cloning and Forking Steps.

README.md, after:

# Crilly's B&B

## Introduction

Crilly's B&B is a website for a small B&B business based in the small town of Maghera, Co. Derry. The website is aimed towards any holidaymakers who are looking for a quiet holiday in relaxing surroundings.

Users of this website will be able to gain a good insight into what it is like to stay at the B&B, the available facilites and what they can expect from the local area. They will have easy access to prices and contact page where they can send an enquiry to book their desired room. 

## User Experience (UX)

### Project Goals

* To create a minimalist, well-designed website for a small hospitality business that helps with the company's branding and increases their bookings.

### User Goals

* To learn more about the B&B, including the style and affordability.
* To easily make a booking.
* To find clear information about the B&B location and directions, the rooms, prices and facilities on offer.

### Site Owner's Goals

* To project a positive brand image.
* To get new customers.

### Target Audience

* Families looking for an affordable, low-key holiday.
* Couples looking for a remote romantic getaway.
* Solo travelers who would appreciate cosy and remote accommodation in the countryside.

### User Stories

* First Time Visitor Goals

  * As a First Time Visitor, I want to easily understand the main purpose of the site and learn more about the service on offer at the B&B.
  * As a First Time Visitor, I want to be able to easily navigate throughout the site to find content.
  * As a First Time Visitor, I want to easily find basic information about the B&B like it's location and how to reach it.
 
* Returning Visitor Goals

  * As a Returning Visitor, I want to easily access the section of the site where I can contact the organisation with queries.
  * As a Returning Visitor, I want to easily access the section of the site where I can review prices as I may now be considering booking and putting a budget together for this.
  * As a Returning Visitor, I also want to locate the business's social media links to see their followings on social media to determine how trusted and known they are, and potentially look for testimonials on these sites to understand how previous customers found the accommodation.
  
* Frequent User Goals

  * As a Frequent User, I want to be able to access the site easily from any device, even if I am on the go.
  * As a Frequent User, I want to follow the B&B on their social pages so I am aware of any updates/offers.

* Site Owner Goals

  * As a site owner, I want to create an attractive and well-designed site that elicits a positive emotional resonse in users so that they remain on and navigate througout the site to achieve their goals.
  * As a site owner, I want to have a clear and well-structured contact from so I can receive queries and questions from users which will potentially lead to bookings.
  *  As a site owner, I want to have clear social media links displayed on the site which may lead to an increased following on channels to help with my branding.

### Structure:

The site has 4 pages: 

Home page - The 'Home' page contains a Hero image of the exterior of the B&B (Often the first thing a potential customer wants to see), an eye-catching call to action booking button in the centre of the page which redirects to the Contact page, and an 'About us' section with a welcome message and brief background of the business.

Rooms -  The 'Rooms' page contains images of the two room types available and their prices, with additional 'book now' buttons which redirect to the Contact form/booking page.

See and do - The 'See and do' page contains suggestions for activities in the area which may be of interest to the B&B's guests, along with links to more information on each activity. 

Contact page - The 'Contact' page contains a contact form for customers to submit booking requests and questions to the company. This page also contains a map to the B&B and directions/transport options.

For consistency of user experience, the site logo, navigation links and footer remain consitent throughout the site.

### Wireframes:

Mock-ups were made using Balsamiq to help plan and visualise the site design. They were created for 3 main screen sizes: mobile, tablet and desktop.

> - [Wireframes](docs/home-wireframes.pdf): 'Home' page.
> - [Wireframes](docs/rooms-wireframes.pdf): 'Rooms' page.
> - [Wireframes](docs/see-and-do-wireframes.pdf): 'See and do' page.
> - [Wireframes](docs/contact-wireframes.pdf): 'Contact' page.

### Design:

* Colour Scheme:

The colour palette includes calm and complimenting colours which suit the countryside cottage feel that the site is aiming for. The palette was chosen using the [Coolors](https://coolors.co/) colour generator website.

![Image of Color Palette](assets/images/color-palette-small.png)

The colours mainly used were:

Rosewood: #4F000B

Claret: #720026

Brickred: #CE4257

White was also used in different parts of the site to achieve the best possible contrast for user experience.

* Typography:
'Kaisei HarunoUmi', taken from Google Fonts, is the main font used throughout the website with 'Sans Serif' as the fallback font. It is clear, neat and appropriate for the homely feel that the site is aiming for. 

* Imagery:

All images were sourced from [Pexels](https://www.pexels.com/) and [Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/).

The main image on the home page is a beautiful remote old fashioned country cottage, surrounded by nature. This aims to evoke feelings of calm. 

The images on the 'See and do' offer a preview of the recommended local activites, and also provide a balance between imagery and text.

The image on the 'Contact' page aims to evoke feelings of cosiness and calm and compliments the site's colour scheme.

------

## Features

### Existing Features:

* Navigation

  * Horizontally aligned navigation bar with 4 navigation links exists on all pages.

  * Navigation bar is always at the top of the page so users know what to expect and can navigate easily.

  * The site logo is clickable and allows the user to return to the homepage from anywhere on the site.

  * A border appears at the bottom of the menu links when they are hovered over.

  * On mobile, the navigation menu links are displayed underneath and to the right of the logo, instead of in-line.

Desktop:

![Image of desktop menu](assets/images/desktop-nav.png)

Mobile:

![Image of mobile menu](assets/images/mobile-nav.png)

* Landing Page with a hero image

  * Large hero image serves to present the B&B in an attractive light and grab the users attention.
  * Call to action booking button is centrally placed on the hero image. The button background and text colours change on hover inviting the visitor to navigate to the contact/booking section of the site.

Desktop:

![Image of desktop hero image](assets/images/desktop-hero.png)

Mobile: 

![Image of mobile hero image](assets/images/mobile-hero.png)

* 'About Us' section
  * This seciton provides a brief background of the B&B and a welcoming message for prospective guests.
  * Icons were added to the section heading to make the paragraph stand out and make it more appealing visually.

Desktop:

![Image of desktop 'about us'](assets/images/about-us-desktop.png)

Mobile:

![Image of mobile 'about us'](assets/images/about-us-mobile.png)

* Footer

  * Footer is conventionally placed at the bottom of the site and consistently displayed on all pages.

  * It includes centered social media links which open in new tabs. 

  * The aim is for a clean and minimlaist look for the footer.

Desktop: 

![Image of desktop footer](assets/images/desktop-footer.png)

Mobile:

![Image of mobile footer](assets/images/mobile-footer.png)

* Rooms 

  * The Rooms page displays two large images of available rooms at the B&B.
  * The overlay text on each image states the price per night and an additional booking button to take customers to the contact/booking page straight away.

Desktop:

![Image of Desktop Rooms](assets/images/rooms-desktop.png)

Mobile:

![Image of Mobile Rooms](assets/images/rooms-mobile.png)

* See and do 

  * The 'See and do' page contains suggestions for recreational activities within driving distance of the B&B.
  * There is a short introductory text on each activity with an accompanying image.
  * Each activity has a link to the relevant social media or website page through which guests can find specific locations and directions. Each of theese links opens in a new tab.
  * On smaller screens, the images adjust so that they become smaller to allow the full text to be seen, without stretching or distorting the images.

Desktop:

![Image of Desktop See and do](assets/images/seedo-desktop.png)

Mobile:

![Image of Mobile See and do](assets/images/seedo-mobile.png)

* Contact

  * The contact page contains a large image of a fireplace to evoke feelings of cosiness and warmth.
  * There is a contact form overlaying the main image where guests can submit queries or directly make a booking request. The button on this form changes colour when hovered over.
  * The name and email fields are required and a validation error message pops up if the user tries to submit the form with information missing from these fields.
  * The email addresss needs to be in a valid format - a validation error message pops up if the format is incorrect.

Desktop:

![Image of Desktop Contact](assets/images/contact-desktop.png)

Mobile:

![Image of Mobile Contact](assets/images/contact-mobile.png)

* Directions section

  * This section is located at the bottom of the Contact page adnd comprises of an embedded Google Map and Directions text.
  * On smaller screens, the map gets stacked on top of the text instead of side by side.

Desktop:

![Image of Desktop Directions](assets/images/directions-desktop.png)

Mobile:

![Image of Mobile Directions](assets/images/directions-mobile.png)

### Features To be Implemented in Future:

* Rooms page: Add more pictures of each room to give customers a better idea, possibly using a Javascript scroll function through the images.
* Contact page: Add a traditional booking form with arrival and departure dates to make the booking experience more straight forward for guests.
* Home page: Add more imagery in a gallery to give an insight into the catering services at the B&B. This gallery would also portray a diverse customer base to reflect the company's commitment to diversity and inclusion. 
-

## Technologies Used

###Languages:
* > - [HTML 5](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTML5)
* > - [CSS 3](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CSS)

###Frameworks, libraries and programs used:

* > - [Balsamiq](https://balsamiq.com/) - to create wireframes for the site as part of the project preparation.
* > - [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/) - to import the 'Kaisei HarunoUmi' and 'Sans Serif' fonts into the HTML file, which were then used throughout the site.
* > - [Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com/) - for icons which were added to some headings throughout the site for aesthetics.
* > - [Coolors](https://coolors.co/) - for an appropriate and attractive colour palette.
* > - [Tinypng](https://tinypng.com/)- to resize images.
* > - [Chrome DevTools](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/) - to inspect and debug the code through all stages of the development.
* > - [Lighthouse](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/lighthouse) - to check the site for performance, accessibility and best practices.
* > - [Am I Responsoive](http://ami.responsivedesign.is/) - to produce a preview of the site on different devices.
* > - [W3C HTML Validator](https://validator.w3.org/#validate_by_input) - to validate HTML code.
* > - [W3C CSS Validator](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/) - to validate CSS code.
---Color Contrast Accessibility Validator - to test the contrast and readability of colours used ---
* > - [Github](https://github.com/) - for hosting the project code and version control.
* > - [Gitpod](https://gitpod.io/account)- to write the code and push it to GitHub.
* > - [Github Pages](https://pages.github.com/) - to deploy the site.
---Online-Spellcheck - to spellcheck the content of the site and README---
* > - [Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/) - for images.
* > - [Pexels](https://www.pexels.com/) - for images.

## Deployment

# Deploying

* The site was developed in GitPod and deployed to GitHub pages. The steps to deploy are as follows:
  * Navigate to the Github repository. For this project, this is rocrill/Crilly-s-B-B. 
  * Navigate to the Settings tab, then to Pages.
  * From the Source secton drop-down menu, select the Master Branch ( or Branch: Master and Root folder). Save.
  * Once the master branch has been selected, you will see the message: 'Your site is published' and a link to the deployed site will be provided.

The live link can be found here - xxxxx

# Forking to GitHub Repository

You can create a fork (copy) of the repository. This allows you to experiment with the code without affecting the original project.

To fork the repository:

1. Log in to your GitHub account
2. On GitHub, navigate to the repository you want to fork
3. In the top right corner of the page, underneath your profile avatar, click Fork
4. You should now have a copy of the original repository in your GitHub account

# Making a local clone:

You can clone your repository to create a local copy on your computer. Any changes made to the local copy will not affect the original project. To clone the Writing Room project, follow the steps below:

1. Log in to your GitHub account and locate the Writing Room repository
2. In the repository, click on Code button located above all the project files
3. Under HTTPS, copy the link generated (INSERT LINK HERE)
4. Open the terminal you are using, e.g. Gitpod
5. Change the current working directory to the location where you want the cloned directory created
6. Type git clone and then paste the URL you copied earlier:
7. git clone (INSERT LINK HERE)
8. Press Enter to create your local clone.

## Testing

The W3C Markup Validator and W3C CSS Validator Services were used to validate every page of the project to ensure there were no syntax errors in the project.

W3C Markup Validator - Results
W3C CSS Validator - Results

#Testing User Stories



#Further Testing

The Website was tested on Google Chrome, Internet Explorer, Microsoft Edge and Safari browsers.
The website was viewed on a variety of devices such as Desktop, Laptop, iPhone6 and Oppo Find X2 Lite.



## Credits

### Code

The Code Institute LMS content as well as some posts on Stackoverflow were used to create this site. All code taken from these resources has been adapted to suit the needs of this site, except for the specific cases referenced below.

Reference materials from xxx were used to implement xxx.

xxx was taken from this xxx post.

Icons taken from Font Awesome.


## Acknowledgements


------
